= acts_as_list_with_sti_support


== Description

This +acts_as+ extension provides the capabilities for sorting and reordering a number of objects in a list.
The class that has this specified needs to have a +position+ column defined as an integer on the mapped 
database table.



== Usage

If you just want a global list, simply add acts_as_list to the model.

  class ListItem < ActiveRecord::Base
    acts_as_list
  end

  ListItem.first.move_to_bottom
  ListItem.last.move_higher
	
	
The plugin accepts two optional parameters.

+column+:: specifies the name of the column to use for the position (default: position)
+scope+:: specifies the scope within which lists are ordered (default: 1 = 1, i.e., a global list)

  class FunkyList < ActiveRecord::Base
    has_many :funky_list_items
  end
  
  class FunkyListItem < ActiveRecord::Base
    belongs_to   :funky_list
    acts_as_list :column => :pos, :scope => :funky_list
  end

The +scope+ option can be supplied as a symbol or as a lambda.  The generated scope condition
will differ depending on the value's Type and the schema of the associated table.

  # yields "type_id = '99'", if type_id is defined on the table
  # yields "type = '99'", if type_id is not defined on the table 
  class MyListItem < ActiveRecord::Base
    acts_as_list :scope => :type									
  end

  # yields "type_id = '99'"
  class MyListItem < ActiveRecord::Base
    acts_as_list :scope => lambda { |instance| "type_id = '#{instance.type_id}'" }
  end


If you use the plugin within a single table inheritance (STI) design, no extra configuration is needed
to cause the position values to be scoped by type.

  class Label < ActiveRecord::Base
    acts_as_list
  end
	
  class BillingFrequency < Label
  end
	


== Helpful Links

* <b>Repository:</b> http://github.com/coroutine/acts_as_list_with_sti_support
* <b>Gem:</b> http://rubygems.org/gems/acts_as_list_with_sti_support
* <b>Authors:</b> http://coroutine.com



== Installation (Rails 3)

Install me from RubyGems.org by adding a gem dependency to your Gemfile.  Bundler does 
the rest.

	gem "acts_as_list_with_sti_support"

	$ bundle install



== Installation (Rails 2)

Install me from RubyGems.org and add a gem dependency in the appropriate file.

	$ gem install acts_as_list_with_sti_support

Or install me as a plugin.

	$ script/plugin install git://github.com/coroutine/acts_as_list_with_sti_support.git



== Gemroll

Other gems by Coroutine include:

* {acts_as_current}[http://github.com/coroutine/acts_as_current]
* {acts_as_label}[http://github.com/coroutine/acts_as_label]
* {delayed_form_observer}[http://github.com/coroutine/delayed_form_observer]
* {kenny_dialoggins}[http://github.com/coroutine/kenny_dialoggins]
* {michael_hintbuble}[http://github.com/coroutine/michael_hintbuble]
* {tiny_navigation}[http://github.com/coroutine/tiny_navigation]



== License

Copyright (c) 2010 {Coroutine LLC}[http://coroutine.com].

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

The plugin is a modestly modified version of the rails acts_as_list plugin released under the
MIT license by David Heinemeier Hansson.
